hello i'm alex one of the expert toefl
teachers here at e2 language and in this
video we are talking about
toefl integrated writing toefl
integrated writing
note taking for reading
in this video i'm going to tell you all
about toefl integrated writing and we're
going to focus on the reading part of it
and learn how to take notes i'll
describe the integrated writing task
we'll read a passage together and
complete
a note-taking template
so let's start by talking about toefl
integrated writing
what happens in this task now there are
basically three steps
firstly you read a passage and take
notes for about three minutes
then you're going to listen to a lecture
on the same topic
and take more notes this goes for about
two minutes
and finally you write an integrated
summary where you bring
the information together from the
reading and the listening and you have
20 minutes to do this part
in this video we're working on this part
here reading a passage
and taking notes now the reading does
appear
again after you've done the listening so
why do you need to take
notes well the notes are going to save
you time
in the end you don't want to be reading
and re-reading and re-reading the same
passage
so in that three minutes at the
beginning taking effective notes
is really going to help you when it
comes to writing your summary
so this is a typical reading passage
and this is the template for our
note-taking
on the left we've got a column for main
idea
and on the right we've got a column for
the details
so as you're reading that text you're
looking for
the main ideas and almost always there
are going to be
three of them three main ideas in the
reading passage
and for each idea there is supporting
details as well
so how do we find the main ideas the
first place
you should look is the topic sentence
now what is a topic sentence it's the
first
line of every paragraph so in the text
that we've got here there are three
paragraphs that means
there are three topic sentences now we
look to the topic sentence because
that usually tells us what's coming up
in the paragraph so let's look at this
first one together
while scientists have claimed that
climate change should cause sea levels
to rise
at increasing rates because of melting
ice caps in greenland and antarctica
sea level rise has slowed
all right so so it seems to me like the
main idea
is sea levels and how climate change
affects them
if i want to just confirm that that's
the main idea i can
skim quickly through the rest of the
paragraph looking for
repeated words or ideas if the same
word or idea appears a few times it's
pretty obvious that that's the main
point of this paragraph
so when i look through really quickly
you can see sea level sea level sea
level rise
quite a lot of instances so this
confirms to me this is my first
main point and i'll pop it here
as my first main idea if i need a little
bit
more i need to know what the writer is
saying about c
level so i actually need to slow down a
little bit and read the paragraph
now so let's have a look together after
that first sentence
the writer continues sea levels have
always risen
between ice ages or during interglacial
periods
indeed sea levels have risen more than
400 feet since the end of the last
interglacial period now a word like this
indeed
and i can see the next word coming up is
however these words really
send off an alarm in my head they make
me pay attention so indeed
it's going to give me some evidence or
an example to support the sentence
before
however is going to contradict that
information
okay so indeed sea levels have risen
however
the rate of sea level rise since 1961
is far lower than the historic average
since the end of the previous ice age so
far lower
also there's another trigger word also
more information measured sea level rise
is well below
the rise predicted by those climate
models claiming sea levels would
increase
because of anthropogenic warming
so i can see in there there were
predictions about sea level rising
but the key points here actually
it hasn't risen as much as expected so
yes sea levels have always risen between
ice ages
but the rise since 61 is far lower than
the historic average
and well below the rise predicted by
experts so these are my
important details and i scribble them
on my note paper always arise between
ice ages recent rises lower than the
historic average
and the rise lower than predicted all of
that on
test day should take about one minute so
you're working
really quickly but still reading quite
carefully
so now let's move on to body paragraph
two we're looking for our second
main idea i've got the feeling now this
uh text is all about climate change
the first main idea related to rising
sea levels i'm going to look for the
second one now so let's start with the
topic sentence we'll read it together
based on climate models projections of
land
and ecosystem shifts and changes
biologists have predicted global warming
would cause numerous plant and wildlife
extinctions yet they have been
unable to point to a single instance of
a species going extinct
due to human-caused climate change thus
far
so from that first sentence there i can
firstly i get the feeling that we're
throwing climate change
into some doubt here and to me the main
point
that catches my eye is this extinctions
plant and wildlife or animal
extinctions and when i run my eye
through the paragraph i can see
something about polar bears a decline
grown dramatically populations have
declined
so i'm pretty confident this is my main
point it's all about
wildlife extinction but what exactly
does the writer say
about wildlife extinction let's read a
little more carefully
from the second sentence for instance
although sea ice in the arctic has
declined over the past 20 years
polar bears which various scientists
predicted would be driven to extinction
due to
declining sea ice sea levels have proven
highly adaptable so
polar bears they predicted a decline but
they have proven
highly adaptable their populations have
grown dramatically over the past 60
years
from approximately 5 000 bears in the
1950s
to more than 25 000 today in the few
locations
in which populations have declined
temperatures have been
cooler not warmer than average during
the past few decades
so seeing a lot of information here
about what experts and scientists
predicted would happen
you know mass extinction decline in
polar bears
and what has actually happened which is
no extinctions
and increase in polar bear populations
so these are my details and i'll
scribble them on my notepad
so no instance of extinction due to
climate change reported
polar bears were predicted to be extinct
but numbers
have risen so now i need my third point
i'm going to look to the third paragraph
for this
let's try the topic sentence scientists
have also claimed
climate change is causing the oceans to
warm
and become more acidic oceans
to become warm and more acidic so i've
really got a feeling now of what
the structure of this this passage is
so i'm pretty confident this is the main
point in body three
ocean acidity everything is in relation
to climate change
what does it say about ocean acidity
they point so scientists point to
widespread
coral bleaching and coral reef deaths as
proof
and as a warning of the worsening
conditions that will
come if the global warming problem isn't
solved
immediately however here's one of those
trigger words however as with the
alleged polar bear extinction crisis
the rumors of coral reefs deaths have
been greatly
exaggerated coral reefs evolved during
and survived through
several more dramatic climate shifts
than the one the world is currently
undergoing
and they have proven much more resilient
than climate alarmists have claimed
all right so same thing as with the
polar bears it was expected that coral
reefs
would die off and bleach but these have
been exaggerated coral reefs
evolved and survived during more
dramatic climate change
so these are my my details
so these are my details it's focusing on
coral bleaching
which people expected to happen as a
result of
acidity but these rumors are exaggerated
coral reefs have survived other dramatic
changes
so now i've got my three main points
i've got a bunch of details here
so now that we've got our three main
points from the reading
and some notes we are ready to do the
listening part of this task
so as we listen we're also going to take
notes if you want to do
some work on that make sure you come and
sign up at e2language.com
once you've done some practice in the
course materials and joined our live
classes try our mini mock test this
gives you a taste
of all the toefl tasks and gives you an
indication of what your score will be
everything you need for your toefl
preparation is there
on e2language.com